The most popular programming languages are:

- Java;
- C++;
- PHP;
- Python;
- C;

1. Java- is a computer programming language that is concurrent, class-based,object-oriented, and specifically designed to 
   have as few implementation dependencies as possible. It is intended to let application developers "write once, run 
   anywhere" (WORA), meaning that code that runs on one platform does not need to be recompiled to run on another. 
   Java applications are typically compiled to bytecode (class file) that can run on any Java virtual machine (JVM) 
   regardless of computer architecture.

2. C++ - is a general purpose programming language. It has imperative, object-oriented and generic programming features,
   while also providing the facilities for low level memory manipulation.
   It is designed with a bias for systems programming (e.g. embedded systems, operating system kernels), with performance,
   efficiency and flexibility of use as its design requirements.” C++” has also been found useful in many other contexts,
   including desktop applications, servers (e.g. e-commerce, web search, SQL), performance critical applications 
   (e.g. telephone switches, space probes) and entertainment software, such as video games.
   similarities between C#,Java and C++: 
   both have system garbage collection (C++ does not - you have to allocate and deallocate memory for objects).
   oth have strict compiler conditions which are checked such as array indexes, initialisation of variables before use etc
   (I believe that C++ only checks syntax, resulting in many run-time errors).
   both have large API's and documentation.
   Difference:
   C# does not support multiple inheritance 
   C# assemblies contain metadata about the code, allowing for run-time inspection. C++ does not contain this metadata, 
   so the best you can do is fancy template programming.
	
3. PHP- is a server-side scripting language designed for web development but also used as a general-purpose programming 
   language. As of January 2013, PHP was installed on more than 240 million websites (39% of those sampled) and
   2.1 million web servers.Originally created by Rasmus Lerdorf in 1994,the reference implementation of PHP 
   (powered by the Zend Engine) is now produced by The PHP Group. PHP code can be simply mixed with HTML code,
   or it can be used in combination with various templating engines and web frameworks.

4. Python - is a widely used general-purpose, high-level programming language.[15][16][17] Its design philosophy emphasizes
   code readability, and its syntax allows programmers to express concepts in fewer lines of code than would be possible
   in languages such as C. The language provides constructs intended to enable clear programs on both a small and 
   large scale.
   Python supports multiple programming paradigms, including object-oriented, imperative and functional programming or
   procedural styles. It features a dynamic type system and automatic memory management and has a large and comprehensive
   standard library.
   

5. C- is a general-purpose programming language initially developed by Dennis Ritchie between 1969 and 1973 at AT&T Bell Labs.
   Like most imperative languages in the ALGOL tradition, C has facilities for structured programming and allows lexical
   variable scope and recursion, while a static type system prevents many unintended operations.
   Its design provides constructs that map efficiently to typical machine instructions, and therefore it has found lasting
   use in applications that had formerly been coded in assembly language, most notably system software like the Unix computer
   operating system.