Eclipse 
This is the best alternative if you are not a big fan of Microsoft’s Visual Studio. The interface is a lot cleaner
and concise than Visual Studio and the languages that are possible to use extend past the .Net Framework.
Besides being the number on way to develop Android applications via the Android SDK, it is fully extensible to use
languages such as Ruby, C, C++ and many many more.
Advantages
Language Extensibility
The languages mentioned above are not limited by Microsoft and anyone is free to develop plug-ins for different
 languages and to make the development environment easier to use. Also, the ability to use this on Linux is a great
 sway for many people who don’t like to be bound by Microsoft’s operating systems and like full control of their OS.
Free
Besides being fully customizable and extensible, the next best thing about eclipse is it’s free. This is good news
 for hobbyists and casual programmers wanting to just hack out some code in their free time.
Compiles Code
Cons
Steep Learning Curve
With so much available to upgrade and add on, the learning curve of eclipse will be quite steep. The best way to get 
past this is to just try coding something. Making mistakes when coding could never be so beneficial. Once you start 
learning from your mistakes you will learn the fastest way to accomplish what you are trying to do.
Netbeans

 
The is the number one alternative to Eclipse. This program is extensible and free, and it compiles code which is a 
bonus. When installing Netbeans it comes with a Java server called GlassFish that you could deploy on your computer
 for your testing environment. This server is the second biggest server for Java next to WebSphere (which is a whole
 different ball game).

Advantages
Extensible
Again, extensibility is a must have for the development environments out there to survive. Instead of having multiple
 programs for multiple different languages combining them into one program gains recognition from developers and the
 software programs that combine it all but the kitchen sink are utilized more often because of the simplicity and 
 ease of access to the languages developers want.
Compiles Code
Free
Cons
Bloated
While using this program you may notice that your computer slows down, throws errors in your program that you 
didn’t know existed etc. This is a tough software program to master and when coding you have to be careful to dot
 the I’s and cross your T’s. This may not be the case for you and Netbeans might be all sunshine and rainbows but 
 it is always best to be safe, rather than sorry later on when you have hundreds of projects.
kate

 
Kate is exactly how the website describes it, a text editor. Not to be looked down upon as it does a lot more than
 a regular text edit can do and that is what makes this an indispensable product.

Advantages
Uses Linux
Code Folding
This is probably one of the best features for kate. [Mike Szczys] explains that there is a small column to the left
 of the code. Any line that is an opening bracket that column will have an arrow next to it. If you click the arrow
 it will fold all of the code between the opening and closing brackets. Very useful for large source packages.
Cons
KDE Overhead
250 Mb of overhead just to use the application. This is not just one package but several packages that are required
 to be on the system just to start the application. This may not be the best choice if you are using a net-book for
 development purposes on the go but if you have a Linux box at home this would do just fine.
Doesn’t Compile Code
gedit



gedit is the official editor of the gnome desktop and comes installed once the system is setup. Very useful for the
 user that is casually editing code and not undertaking major projects. This would be a good companion to Netbeans
 or Eclipse.

Advantages
Uses Linux
Already Installed on gnome systems
This is a major bonus for Linux users. If the application is already installed on the system would you be more likely
 to use it? Either way, if you don’t have to hunt down a program from the software manager then it must be
Code Highlighting
gedit offers the ability to highlight your code and figure out where the bugs are by giving you a fresh perspective.
 This can also be used for web development, to help developers see where the start of nodes are and where to submit
 the end nodes, doing this could cut down drastically on XHTML issues. While it may not do almost everything like
 Netbeans or eclipse, it is a handy tool to have on the computer.
Tabbed
This feature allows multiple source packages open at once to jump back and forth between if need be. This is a highly
 useful when comparing documents and debugging code.
Cons
Doesn’t Compile Code
All of the development environments are amazing choices. It all depends on what you want to do when programming and
 the tools you would like to have available. Microsoft Visual Studio express editions came in first because of the
 extensibility and comprehensiveness of the product. This provides eclipse, netbeans and other development software
 a goal to reach for when marketing to the masses. Remember, it’s not the size of the install it’s how you use it.
 Until next time, Happy Hacking!